Today, we're going to talk about how
native speakers connect words in English.
This is called connected speech.
Often, sounds are reduced or changed when
words are spoken together.
We'll also learn about contractions.
Let's get started.
Elision.
Sometimes sounds are dropped when we
speak quickly.
Examples.
Ok.
Aquí inicia tu ejercicio.
Ahora que ya estás bien familiarizado con
las frases y las palabras claves, solo
vas a escuchar la frase y la vas a repetir.
I'm gonna go to the doctors tomorrow.
He should have gone to the store.
I would have gone if I had known.
You could have told me earlier.
She must have missed the train.
We might have been late.
Give me a call when you arrive.
Let me know if you need anything.
Wanna go to the movies?
I gotta finish this today.
It's kind of funny how that happened.
I ran out of milk.
I need a cup of tea.
That's a lot of work.
Whatcha doing this weekend?
I don't know what to do.
Assimilation.
When two sounds are next to each other,
one may change to sound more like the other.
Examples.
Ok.
Aquí inicia tu ejercicio.
You have to Gano because it's late.
Have to pick up the groceries.
Wanna eat out tonight?
Could you help me with this?
Would you come with me?
Did y 'all see that movie?
This shop has great deals.
That boy is very tall.
In Paris right now.
La Sierra was amazing.
Goo girl did well.
Green bag is on the table.
Tongue cards are missing.
Linking.
Sounds from one word can connect with the
next word.
Examples.
Ok.
Aquí inicia tu ejercicio.
Let's go on a trip this weekend.
Let's go on a trip next month.
Do it yourself.
How are you doing?
See it now.
Get up and get moving.
Turn off the lights.
Put it over there.
Bring it to the meeting.
Call up your friend.
Find out what happened.
Get out of the car.
Hold on for a second.
Turn it off, please.
Reduction.
Some sounds become weaker or change to
the schwa vowel, which sounds like, uh, examples.
Ok.
Aquí inicia tu ejercicio.
Ahora que ya estás bien familiarizado con
las frases y las palabras claves.
Solo vas a escuchar la frase y la vas a repetir.
Can you help me with this problem?
Can you come here?
They need help?
What do you think about this?
I'm going to the store.
He's always late.
She's coming over later.
They're not here yet.
We're going on vacation.
You're the best.
It's going to rain.
There's a problem with the car.
Where's the nearest station?
Who's coming to the party?
Contractions.
Contractions occur when we combine two
words to make a shorter form.
Examples.
Ok.
Aquí inicia tu ejercicio.
I'm going to the store now.
I'm going to the store.
You're invited to the party.
He's already finished.
She's leaving soon.
It's a beautiful day.
We're having a great time.
They're going to be late.
I'll see you later.
You'll do great.
He'll join us later.
She'll be here soon.
It'll be fun.
We'll meet at noon.
They'll arrive tomorrow.
I've finished my homework.
You've got to see this.
He's finished his work.
She's already left.
It's worked well for years.
We've been waiting.
They've got the tickets.
I'd love to go.
You'd better hurry.
He'd like some coffee.
She'd appreciate your help.
It'd be nice to meet her.
We'd be happy to help.
They'd prefer a different time.
I'd finished by then.
You'd already seen that show.
He'd been waiting for hours.
She'd gone home early.
It had been a long day.
We'd seen that movie before.
They'd already left.